Hello and welcome to the final tutorial of part 1 there are pre-processing I'm super excited to be almost
done with it because I can tell you that what's coming next is going to be really exciting.
We're going to build the brain we're going to get into deep learning between us deep learning is much
more exciting than natural language processing.
So that's why I'm super pumped to get to deep learning but that will be in the next tutorial in this
one.
We're going to tackle the final step of our natural language processing phase which is to sort the questions
and answers by the length of the questions before we were sorting both the questions and the answers
by the length of the questions.
So first of all why do we want to do that.
Well I mentioned it in the previous Etoile but I'll say a little more here.
Basically we want to sort the questions and the answers by the length of the questions because this
will speed up the training.
This will speed up the training and help to reduce the loss.
And the reason for this is that because it will reduce the amount of padding during the training.
So it's pretty technical but it's important to know why we're doing this.
Remember I told you at the beginning of our adventure here it's always important to know where you come
from and where you want to go.
And so right now we want to go what we want to do is to sort the questions and the answers by the likes
of the questions to speed up the training and optimize it.
All right.
So let's do this let's sort these questions and answers.
So we will have to make some new lists because we can not change the order in an existing list.
This is not possible and by then we have to make a list or we could override the previous list.
But it's dangerous to do that so we'll make a list and we'll make actually two new list.
The first one we're going to call it sorted clean.
Questions.
Sorry for the long names but it's just for you to visualize clearly what we're making sordid clean questions
that we're going to initialize as an empty nest and then same we are going to make the sordid clean
answers that we are initialising as well as an empty list.
So questions and clean answers.
Great.
Now starts the for loop.
And actually there are going to be two loops.
And again I recommend to try to beat me and make these lists before me.
That's an excellent practice.
The more you code the better you'll become.
But I'll start right now.
So 4 and so now what we want to do.
Well we want to sort the questions and the answers by the length of the questions.
So what we'll do is we will get a loop variable that is going to go from one which is the shortest length
of a question or an answer like for example Y or yes or no.
You know these are important questions or answers in the conversation.
So we're going to have this new variable that is going to start from 1 and then that it's going to be
incremented by one to be equal to two and three and four.
But then we will make it stop at a certain length because we don't want to include the questions that
are too long like for example some big text.
This will not help the chad but to learn how to speak.
It's like if you're training a child to speak English or French will you not teach him English with
long sentences you will start with some short sentences.
Otherwise the child will get overwhelmed.
So the idea is going to be the same here we just want to include the questions and the answers that
are not too long and by not too long I mean a length for example up to 20 or 25 so we'll choose 25.
If this is too long for you you can always reduce it.
If the training takes too long you can always reduce it.
So I'll go up to 25 here we'll see what happens.
Don't worry if we don't get good results we'll always go back in our code to improve the check.
But in the end.
So there we go.
I'm taking my loop variable that I'm calling LAN and that will go in the range from 1 the shortest length
of a question the shortest question up to 25 plus one and adding the plus one here because remember
that upper bounds in ranges in Python are excluded.
So in order to go up to 25 we need to add 25 plus one.
But you know this is arbitrary so we could always go up to 24 and not include the plus when he actually
let's do this it's proper.
Feel free to do it if you want.
All right so then Cullen and we were ready to go inside the for loop and the next step is to start a
second for because now that we loop over the different possible length of the questions we'll be dealing
with.
Well now for each of these questions having that length we're dealing with right now.
Well we want to get two important elements.
The first element is the index of the question and the second element is the question itself the text
because then we will need the length of that question.
So the trick to get these two elements at the same time is to use the numerator function and so that's
exactly what we're going to do we're going to enumerate the questions into a list.
So I'm going to show you what it means to questions into a list.
Is this one.
Yes this is this list.
And by taking the enumerate function what will happen is that the loop variable is going to get two
elements.
First is the index of the question and these questions into a list.
And the second element is going to be this question itself translating into integers and that's exactly
what we want because we need to keep track of the index to add it in our future sorting questions list
and then sorting answers list.
And also we need this because we need the length of it to sort the questions we will get the length
and see if it is equal to the length of the loop starting from 1 and then be equal to 2 3 up to 25.
So we need these two elements.
And the trick to get these two elements to index and the question is to use the enumerate function.
So there we go.
Let's start the second for loop four.
Then we can choose any name for the new variable and we will call it.
It's the usual name when using any right for I n n numerate.
That's the function.
And questions into it and CULLEN And let's go inside.
So for example the first I is going to be equal to the couple of zero and this question then at the
next step of the loop i is going to be equal to the couple of one.
And this question then at the next step the couple to answer this question.
So you see how this works by using this we get the index and the question itself.
That's prefigure going to understand very quickly why it's important for us to get these two elements.
And so now what I'm going to do is I'm going to check if the length of the question I'm dealing with
right now in questions into it is equal to the length we're dealing with right now in the first four
loop.
Remember this length starts at 1.
So if the question that we're catching here in questions into it has a length of one.
Well we will include it first in the sort of questions.
That's the idea of what we're doing here.
And then when lines will be equal the two will catch all the questions in questions and two that have
a length equal to two and then etcetera and that's how we managed to sort the questions and answers
by the length of the questions because now in this for loop we will just add first and if condition
to check if the length of the question is equal to the length we're dealing with right now and if that's
the case we will append this question to our of clean questions and our sort of clean answers.
All right.
Let's do this let's make this if condition if the length of the question we are dealing with right now
in this second for loop and this we can get it by I bracket one because remember I's a couple and the
first element of the couple is the index of the question and the second element of the couple is the
question itself.
So now we were checking if the length of the question itself is equal to the length of the first for
loop we're dealing with right now.
And that starts at 1.
So if the length of the question is equal to this length then what's going to happen is that we will
have to bend this question to the sort in questions list because this length starts at 1 and therefore
the length of the question is equal to 1.
And therefore this is the shortest question.
All right so we take our sordid core clean on those core questions list and to this list we have append
that question that has the length one.
All right.
And how can we get this question.
Well we take our questions on that score into the score and huge list and then to catch this question
we need to catch it by taking the index of the question we are dealing with right now and the index
we have it because this is the first element of I because I remind a couple containing the index of
the question and then the question itself.
So to get that index we need to here.
I zero.
And that gives us exactly what we want.
All right.
And remember that we also want to sort the answers by the length of the questions.
And why is that.
That's because we want to align the questions and the answers we want to make sure that at a specific
index the answer of that index is the answer to the question of that same index and therefore that's
why we have to choose something to sort the questions and answers by.
And we're choosing to sort them by the length of the questions and therefore what we need to do now
is directly to append the answer of that same index 0 here to our sordid clean answers list.
And therefore what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy this page here.
Replace sorting questions by sort of clean answers and append of course answers into list of zero because
answers into list of zero contains exactly the answer of index zero which is the answer to the question
of index 0 in the questions into end list.
So that makes sure everything is well aligned here so perfect.
Oh my goodness.
We're done with data processing this feels so good.
I'm super happy to eventually get to part two.
But before we do that let's have a look at the beauty of what we just made with these final two lists.
Sorting questions and clean answers.
So I'm going to ask you this.
I hope I didn't make a mistake and let's execute.
There we go.
Fingers crossed and amazing.
Now I can tell you that the data processing phase is done and is done actually because now we're going
to get to deep learning which is much more exciting.
So let's have a look at our sort of questions and our storytelling answers which are right here.
So sorting questions first and what we should see is yes exactly that.
That is the first question is containing only one element.
So this corresponds to the encoded number that results from the encoding things to our previous dictionary.
Questions were to ends.
So these corresponds to one word questions.
And if we scroll down well we should get two questions with more elements.
So we should get from questions with one element two questions with two elements in any second.
Well there are actually a lot of questions with one element.
I wonder what these kinds of questions are but soon enough we should get two questions with two elements.
There we go.
They are right here.
That's the questions with two words.
Like I don't know like what's up now what what would be what is.
So there would be three words question but that can be for example.
How come.
Are you OK.
I don't know.
Well you know these are questions from movies.
This can be anything.
And then soon enough we should be able to get to three words questions.
Let's see.
There we go.
Three words.
Question here.
What's up.
Is a three word question.
I'm sure there is a what's up somewhere.
Anyway this is exactly what we wanted.
That's perfect.
I'm going to close this.
All right so now we can move on to part 2.
Building the set to morrow and if you're still there with me I want to congratulate you very much for
staying with me along this huge data processing phase.
I hope this wasn't too overwhelming but this is compulsory and deep natural language processing.
And on a more general note keep in mind that the work of a data scientist or machine learning scientist
is 70 percent on data pre-processing but I tried to make it as efficient as possible and now things
are going to get exciting.
We're going to get into tenths of flow we're going to start using terms of flow and we're going to create
the encoding layer and then the decoding layer in the SEC like morrow.
I can't wait to start.
And until then in Japan I'll be.